
Dear Vice-rectors of the University of Debrecen, 
Dear Dean of the Faculty of Informatics, 
Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,   

I feel deeply honored to be awarded the title of 
Doctor Honoris Causa of University of Debrecen.  

My connections with University of Debrecen started 
21 years ago, in June 1996, when I attended Fibonacci conference in Graz,
and met Professor Atilla Petho, who was an invited speaker on that conference. 
His interest in my work impressed me at the very start of my scientific career. 
Two weeks later, I attended Number theory conference in Eger 
and met Professor Kalman Gyory and other members of famous 
Debrecen number theory group. 
They soon organized my first visit and seminar talk in Debrecen 
in December 1996. 
Since that time, Debrecen has become very important place in my reseach 
and my life, and it certainly has a special place in my heart. 
 
During that visit, the scientific collaboration with Professor Attila Petho 
intensified, and it soon resulted in our first joint paper on the topic of 
Diophantine m-tuples. A Diophantine m-tuple is a set of m positive integers 
with the property that the product of any two of its distinct elements plus 1 
is a square. 
Fermat found the first Diophantine quadruple, 
and it was the set {1, 3, 8, 120}. 
Fields Medalist Alan Baker and Harold Davenport proved in 1969 that this 
quadruple cannot be extended to a quintuple with the same property. 
We were able to generalize that result by showing that already the pair {1, 3} 
cannot be extended to a quintuple. In our paper we introduced some new methods 
like "the congruence method" and an optimized version of the Baker-Davenport 
reduction, which appeared to be very useful tools in many Diophantine problems, 
so to this day, this paper has been cited almost 200 times. 

One of many very important and useful suggestions that Attila Petho gave to me 
was to look at possible connections of Diophantine m-tuples 
and elliptic curves. 
This became very fruitful research topic, especially because of the role of 
Diophantne m-tuples in construction of elliptic curves of high rank. 
Elliptic curves are nonsingular cubic curves, so they appear naturally 
when we want to extend Diophantine triple to an integer or rational 
Diophantine quadruple. Elliptic curves are important objects in many areas 
of mathematics, like number theory, algebraic geometry and complex analysis, 
but they are also very important in cryptography, because their underlining 
group structure, defined by the secant and tangent method, offers significant 
advantages compared to standard public-key cryptosytems based on factorization 
and ordinary discrete logarithm problems. 
The cryptography is also one of research topics which I discovered 
through Attila Petho's advice and suggestions. Under his instructions 
I introduced the first cryptography course in Croatia 18 years ago.  

I have 3 joint papers with Attila Petho, but his influence and importance for 
my research and scientific career is impossible to explain in numbers 
and it is hard to express in words my gratitide for all 
his advices, answers, questions and suggestions. 
While establishing new reseach group in number theory in Croatia I have learnt
a lot from Professor Kalman Gyory and other number theorists from Debrecen. 
I am proud to have joint papers with following colleagues and friends from 
the University of Debrecen: 
Kalman Gyory, Attila Petho, Akos Pinter, Lajos Hajdu, Attila Berczes, 
Szabolcs Tengely and Marton Szikszai. In particular, I would like to mention 
four joint papers with Lajos Hajdu and  Attila Berczes, and a recent joint paper 
with young colleagues Marton Szikszai from Debrecen 
and Matija Kazalicki and Miljen Mikic from Zagreb, 
published this year, in which we proved that there exist 
infinitely many rational Diophantine sixtuples, thus solving an open problem 
from the time of famous mathematician Leonhard Euler who proved 
in 18th century that there are infinitely many rational Diophantine quintuples.  
There are other successful collaborations between members of these two groups, 
in particular between Istvan Gaal from Debrecen and Borka Jadrijevic from Split. 
  
Let me briefly mention some other connections with University of Debrecen. 
In 1998, I stayed one month in Debrecen under scholarship of the 
Hungarian government, while in 2007 I gave a course 
"Algorithmic Aspects of Elliptic Curves" 
for PhD students at the Faculty of Informatics of the University of Debrecen. 
I have attended many conferences on Number theory and Cryptography organized 
by colleagues from Debrecen. 
In particular, Journees Arithmetiques conference, conferences dedicated to 
the birthdays of Professors Kalman Gyory and Attila Petho, and Central European 
Conferences on Cryptology. Attila Petho and I organized Hungarian-Croatian 
Workshop on Mathematics and Informatics in Debrecen in 2005. We had two bilateral 
Hungarian-Croatian projects in Number theory and cryptography from 2005 to 2011, 
and in the frame of these projects many visits of Croatian mathematians to 
Debrecen and Hungarian mathematicians to Zagreb were organized. 
Another important connection with Debrecen concerns  the journal 
Publicationes Mathematicae Debrecen, very respectable mathematical journal, 
in which I published 6 papers. 

Great credit for this grand title and honour that I am recieving today goes to 
all my collaborators, especially members of number theory and cryptography 
groups in Debrecen and Croatia.   
I am sure that this will be additional motivation to all of us 
to continue our successful cooperation in the future. 
I am also grateful to my family for support and understanding. 
  
I would like to thank once again Professor Attila Petho for all his support 
and advice in my scientific career, to the Faculty of Informatics for nominating 
me for this highly respectable title, and to the Senat of the University of 
Debrecen for conferring me the title of Doctor Honoris Causa of 
University of Debrecen. 
I congratulate all colleagues who are promoted and awarded today and I wish them
many successes in their future work. 
This is a very special day for all of us and our families.
 
Thank you very much for your attention. 






